.TH AMP-FASTPING 8 "2019-04-16" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-fastping \- AMP standalone ICMP jitter test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-fastping\fR [\fB-hpvx\fR] [\fB-c \fIcount\fR] [\fB-r \fIrate\fR] [\fB-s \fIsize\fR] [\fB-I \fIiface\fR] [\fB-4 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-6 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-Q \fIcodepoint\fR] -- \fIdestination\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-fastping\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
ICMP jitter test. It sends streams of ICMP packets between two endpoints and
reports on the jitter, latency and loss observed.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.

.TP
\fB-c, --count \fIcount\fR
Number of packets to send in the stream. The default is 60.

.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.

.TP
\fB-p, --preemptive\fR
If set the test will send three packets and then sleep briefly before the test
starts, with the aim of priming any stateful devices in the path (looking up
routes, creating firewall rules, etc).

.TP
\fB-Q, --dscp \fIcodepoint\fR
IP differentiated services codepoint to set. This should be a string
representing a 6-bit value in binary, octal, decimal or hexadecimal, or the
short name of a predefined, commonly used codepoint.

.TP
\fB-r, --rate \fIpackets per second\fR
Specifies the number of packets to try to send per second. The default is 1.

.TP
\fB-s, --size \fIbytes\fR
Specifies the total number of bytes to be sent per packet (including headers).
The default is 64 bytes.

.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.

.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.

.TP
\fB-4, --ipv4 \fIa.b.c.d\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.

.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-http (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-tcpping (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8).
.BR amp-youtube (8).

.SH SECURITY
\fBamp-fastping\fR requires raw socket access to run.

.SH AUTHOR
amp-fastping was written by Jayden Hewer <jayden.hewer@gmail.com> with
modifications by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
