.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH AMP-DNS 8 "Mar 11, 2014" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
amp-dns \- AMP standalone DNS lookup test
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-dns\fR [\fB-hnrsx\fR] [\fB-p \fImilliseconds\fB\fR] [\fB-t \fItype\fB\fR] [\fB-c \fIclass\fB\fR] [\fB-z \fIsize\fB\fR] [\fB-I \fIiface\fB\fR] [\fB-4 \fIaddress\fB\fR] [\fB-6 \fIaddress\fB\fR] \fB-q \fIquery\fB\fR -- \fIdestination1\fR [\fIdestination2\fR \fI...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBamp-dns\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
DNS lookup test. It is very similar in function to \fBdig\fR(1),
except that it can
test to multiple destinations simultaneously. All destinations listed on the
command line will be tested to. Any destinations that are hostnames will be
resolved, and every address that they resolve to will be tested.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c, --class \fIclass\fB\fR
Specifies the class of record that should be queried. Accepts the decimal
value of any valid class, or IN for Internet. The default is IN.
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.
.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fB\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.
.TP
\fB-n, --nsid\fR
Include an EDNS name server ID request when sending the query. Off by default.
.TP
\fB-p, --perturbate \fImilliseconds\fB\fR
Delay the test by a random number of milliseconds, up to a maximum of \fImilliseconds\fR. The default is to not perturbate tests (no delay).
.TP
\fB-q, --query \fIquery\fB\fR
The query name to ask the server about.
.TP
\fB-r, --recurse\fR
Enable recursion for this query. Off by default.
.TP
\fB-s, --dnssec\fR
Request that DNSSEC records be sent. Off by default.
.TP
\fB-t, --type \fItype\fB\fR
Specifies the type of record that should be queried. Accepts the decimal
value of any valid type, or one of A, NS, AAAA, PTR, MX, SOA, ANY.
The default is A.
.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.
.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.
.TP
\fB-z, --payload \fIsize\fB\fR
Specifies the UDP payload buffer size for DNSSEC or NSID messages. The default
is 4096.
.TP
\fB-4, --ipv4 \fIa.b.c.d\fB\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.
.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fB\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-http (8).

.SH AUTHOR
amp-dns was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
