.TH AMP-YOUTUBE 8 "2019-07-02" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-youtube \- AMP standalone YouTube video test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-youtube\fR \fB[-hvx]\fR [\fB-a \fIuser-agent\fR] [\fB-q \fIquality\fR] [\fB-I \fIiface\fR] [\fB-4 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-6 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-Q \fIcodepoint\fR] \fB-y \fIvideo_id\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-youtube\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
YouTube video test. Given a YouTube video ID it will fetch the video using a
headless instance of the Chromium browser and report on the performance.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a, --user-agent \fIagent\fR
Override the browser User-Agent string. By default this is set to
"AMP YouTube test agent (Chromium 63.0.3239.150)"

.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.

.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.

.TP
\fB-q, --quality \fIquality\fR
Suggested video quality, though not guaranteed. YouTube will try not to send
videos in quality levels that it doesn't think are sensible, and can also
change video size on the fly during playback to try to create a better
experience. Possible values are default, small, medium, large, hd720, hd1080,
hd1440, hd2160, highres.

.TP
\fB-Q, --dscp \fIcodepoint\fR
IP differentiated services codepoint to set. This should be a string
representing a 6-bit value in binary, octal, decimal or hexadecimal, or the
short name of a predefined, commonly used codepoint.

.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.

.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.

.TP
\fB-y, --youtube \fIvideo_id\fR
The YouTube video ID to use during testing.

.TP
\fB-4, --ipv6 \fIa.b.c.d\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.

.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.

.SH BUGS
Some options are not yet implemented (-4, -6, -I, -Q).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-tcpping (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8),
.BR amp-fastping (8),
.BR amp-external (8).

.SH AUTHOR
amp-youtube was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
