.TH AMP-EXTERNAL 8 "2019-07-02" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-external \- AMP standalone External software test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-external\fR [\fB-hpvx\fR] \fB-c \fIcommand\fR [-- \fIdestination\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-external\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
external software test. It runs a program that is not part of \fBamplet2\fP
and reports the output. The output from this program must be a single signed
integer up to 64 bits in size, that optionally takes a destination hostname.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.

.TP
\fB-c, --command\fR
The command to run. The command must:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
exist in \fI/usr/lib/{arch}/amplet2/external/\fR
.IP \[bu]
contain only alphanumeric characters in the filename
.IP \[bu]
accept zero arguments, or a single destination argument
.IP \[bu]
finish running in under 2 minutes
.IP \[bu]
output a single signed integer that can be represented in 64 or fewer bits
.RE

.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.

.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-http (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-tcpping (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8),
.BR amp-youtube (8),
.BR amp-fastping (8).

.SH SECURITY
\fBamp-external\fR is running arbitrary programs on the host, with all the
dangers that implies. It does try to restrict the programs to those explicitly
made available by the host administrator and tries to do so with minimal
permissions.

.SH AUTHOR
amp-external was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
