.TH AMP-SIP 8 "2020-03-06" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-sip \- AMP standalone SIP/RTP test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-sip\fR \fB-s\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.br
\fBamp-sip\fR \fB-u \fIuri\fR [\fIoptions\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-sip\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
SIP/RTP test. It establishes a SIP connection between two endpoints (the
remote endpoint being another instance of this standalone test, a running
instance of \fBamplet2\fP(8), or any other SIP endpoint) then sends an RTP
stream containing audio data, reporting on the jitter, latency and loss
observed. It also uses these values to calculate Mean Opinion Scores.

The test runs till the maximum duration is reached, or (if looping is
disabled) when playback of the audio file ends.


.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a, --user-agent \fIagent\fR
Specify User-Agent string. The default is "AMP SIP test agent <version>".


.TP
\fB-f, --filename \fIfilename\fR
Specify the WAV audio file to play once the media connection is established.
It should be encoded as 16-bit, mono, 16000Hz. The test will run until playback
of the audio file ends or the maximum allowed test duration is reached,
whichever occurs first.
The default is \fI/usr/lib/{arch}/amplet2/extra/sip-test.wav\fR.
.\" XXX this isn't architecture specific, put this in share/ or something?


.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.


.TP
\fB-Q, --dscp \fIcodepoint\fR
IP differentiated services codepoint to set. This should be a string
representing a 6-bit value in binary, octal, decimal or hexadecimal, or the
short name of a predefined, commonly used codepoint.


.TP
\fB-4, --ipv4 \fIa.b.c.d\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-P, --port \fIport\fR
Set the local SIP port to bind to. The default is 5060.


.TP
\fB-s, --server\fR
Run in server mode.


.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r, --disable-repeat
Play the WAV file only once then hang up.


.TP
\fB-t, --time \fIduration\fR
Maximum duration in seconds that the test should run for. The test will run
until playback of the audio file ends or \fIduration\fR seconds have passed,
whichever occurs first. The default is 30 seconds.


.TP
\fB-u, --uri \fIuri\fR
Run in client mode, connecting to \fIuri\fR.


.TP
\fB-y, --proxy \fIuri\fR
Specify the URI to a SIP proxy that should be used. May be given multiple
times.


.SH MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.


.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.


.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBamp-sip -u sip:192.0.2.1
Connect to a SIP endpoint that is listening on address 192.0.2.1 and play
the default audio file on repeat until the default test duration is reached.


.TP
\fBamp-sip -u sip:example@sip.example.com -r
Connect to a SIP endpoint that is registered as example@sip.example.com and
play the default audio file once (the default audio file is shorter than the
default maximum test duration).


.TP
\fBamp-sip -u sip:192.0.2.1 -f ~/example.wav -t 60\fR
Connect to a SIP endpoint that is listening on address 192.0.2.1 and play
the audio file \fI~/example.wav\fB for 60 seconds, repeating the audio file
should it reach the end.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-http (8),
.BR amp-tcpping (8),
.BR amp-youtube (8),
.BR amp-fastping (8),
.BR amp-external (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8).


.SH AUTHOR
amp-sip was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
