.TH AMP-HTTP 8 "2022-07-29" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-http \- AMP standalone HTTP fetch test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-http\fR \fB[-cdhkpvx]\fR [\fB-a \fIuser-agent\fR] [\fB-m \fImax_con\fR] [\fB-o \fImax_persistent_con\fR] [\fB-P \fIproxy\fR] [\fB-r \fImax_pipeline\fR] [\fB-s \fImax_con_per_server\fR] [\fB-S \fIsslversion\fR] [\fB-z \fIpipe_size\fR] [\fB-I \fIiface\fR] [\fB-4 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-6 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-Q \fIcodepoint\fR] \fB-u \fIurl\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-http\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
HTTP fetch test. Given a URL to a webpage it will fetch the page and most of
the other content required to properly display it - CSS, images, javascript,
etc. It will however not parse javascript, so won't fetch objects from URLs
that are constructed programatically.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a, --user-agent \fIagent\fR
Specify User-Agent string. The default is "AMP HTTP test agent".


.TP
\fB-c, --cached\fR
Allow cached content.


.TP
\fB-d, --dontparse\fR
Don't parse fetched URL for more objects.


.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.


.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.


.TP
\fB-k, --no-keep-alive\fR
Disable keep-alives. The default is enabled.


.TP
\fB-m, --max-con \fIcount\fR
Set the maximum number of connections to \fIcount\fR. The default is 256.


.TP
\fB-o, --max-persistent-con-per-server \fIcount\fR
Set the maximum number of persistent connections per server to \fIcount\fR. The default is 6.


.TP
\fB-p, --pipeline\fR
Enable pipelining. The default is disabled.


.TP
\fB-P, --proxy \fIproxy\fR
Proxy server to use to access the given URL. Passed straight through to libcurl.
Expected to be in the libcurl proxy string format:
[protocol://][user:password@]proxyhost[:port]. See
https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_PROXY.html for more information.


.TP
\fB-Q, --dscp \fIcodepoint\fR
IP differentiated services codepoint to set. This should be a string
representing a 6-bit value in binary, octal, decimal or hexadecimal, or the
short name of a predefined, commonly used codepoint.


.TP
\fB-r, --max-pipelined-requests \fIcount\fR
Set the maximum number of pipelined requests to \fIcount\fR. The default is 4.


.TP
\fB-s, --max-con-per-server \fIcount\fR
Set the maximum number of connections per server to \fIcount\fR. The default is 15.


.TP
\fB-S, --sslversion \fIversion\fR
Force SSL version (sslv3, tlsv1, etc).


.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.


.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.


.TP
\fB-z, --pipe-size \fIcount\fR
Set the threshold of pipelined requests in a pipe before a new pipeline is created. The default is 2.


.TP
\fB-4, --ipv4 \fIa.b.c.d\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-tcpping (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8),
.BR amp-youtube (8),
.BR amp-fastping (8),
.BR amp-external (8).

.SH AUTHOR
amp-http was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
