.TH AMP-TCPPING 8 "2016-09-20" "amplet2-client" "The Active Measurement Project"

.SH NAME
amp-tcpping \- AMP standalone TCP SYN latency test


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamp-tcpping\fR [\fB-hrx\fR] [\fB-P \fIportnumber\fR] [\fB-p \fImilliseconds\fR] [\fB-s \fIpacketsize\fR] [\fB-I \fIiface\fR] [\fB-4 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-6 \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-Q \fIcodepoint\fR] [\fB-Z \fImicroseconds\fR] -- \fIdestination1\fR [\fIdestination2\fR \fI...\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamp-tcpping\fP is the standalone version of the \fBamplet2\fP(8)
TCP Ping test. It attempts to measure latency by sending a TCP SYN packet
to a destination and waiting for a response (which might be a SYN ACK, a RST
or an ICMP error). This test is particularly useful for measuring latency
for paths where ICMP is blocked or rate-limited. Like the AMP ICMP test, this
test can measure latency for multiple destinations simultaneously. All
destinations listed on the command line will be tested to. Any destinations
that are hostnames will be resolved and every address that the name resolves
to will be tested.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.


.TP
\fB-I, --interface \fIiface\fR
Specifies the interface (device) that tests should use when sending packets.
By default the interface will be selected according to the routing table.


.TP
\fB-P, --port \fIportnumber\fR
The destination port number to send the SYN packets to. The default port
number is 80 (i.e. the www port).


.TP
\fB-p, --perturbate \fImilliseconds\fR
Delay the test by a random number of milliseconds, up to a maximum of \fImilliseconds\fR. The default is to not perturbate tests (no delay).


.TP
\fB-Q, --dscp \fIcodepoint\fR
IP differentiated services codepoint to set. This should be a string
representing a 6-bit value in binary, octal, decimal or hexadecimal, or the
short name of a predefined, commonly used codepoint.


.TP
\fB-r, --random\fR
Use a random packet size for each test.


.TP
\fB-s, --size \fIpacketsize\fR
Specifies the total number of bytes to be sent per packet (including headers).
The minimum (and default) packet size is 64 bytes to ensure that both IPv4
and IPv6 probes are the same size - IPv4 packets are padded with an additional
20 bytes of TCP options. Payload-bearing SYNs are typically dropped by
firewalls and other security appliances so take this into consideration before
increasing the packet size. In our experience, just adding padding does NOT
cause our SYNs to be dropped, but unfortunately the maximum allowable amount of
options is very small.


.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show version of program.


.TP
\fB-x, --debug\fR
Enable extra debugging output.


.TP
\fB-Z, --interpacketgap \fImicroseconds\fR
Minimum number of microseconds between sending probe/query packets.


.TP
\fB-4, --ipv4 \fIa.b.c.d\fR
Specifies the source IPv4 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv4 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv4 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.TP
\fB-6, --ipv6 \fIa:b:c:d:e:f:g:h\fR
Specifies the source IPv6 address that tests should use when sending packets to
IPv6 targets. This address must belong to one of the interfaces.
By default the IPv6 address of the outgoing interface will be used.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR amplet2 (8),
.BR amplet2-remote (8),
.BR amp-icmp (8),
.BR amp-trace (8),
.BR amp-dns (8),
.BR amp-throughput (8),
.BR amp-http (8),
.BR amp-udpstream (8).


.SH SECURITY
\fBamp-tcpping\fR requires raw socket access to run.
.\" CAP_NET_RAWIO, see man ping


.SH AUTHOR
amp-tcpping was written by Shane Alcock <salcock@waikato.ac.nz> with
modifications by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Shane Alcock <salcock@waikato.ac.nz> and
updated by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
