.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH AMPCA 8 "Jan 27, 2015" "ampca" "The Active Measurement Project"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
ampca \- AMP certificate authority management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBampca\fR [\fB-afh\fR]
      {\fBdeny, generate, initialise, list, revoke, sign\fR}
      [\fIhosts\fR [\fIhosts ...\fR]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBampca\fP is provided as a convenient way to manage a certificate authority
used with amplet clients. You can use it to list/sign outstanding certificate
requests, list/revoke signed certificates, or generate new keys and
certificates.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a, --all\fR
Operate on all certificates or signing requests, rather than a specified list.
.TP
\fB-f, --force\fR
Perform an action even if there is ambiguity or conflict. Use with caution.
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show summary of options.

.SH ACTIONS
Most actions requre either a list of hosts to operate on, or the \fB--all\fR
flag to operate on all valid hosts. In the case that a name could refer to
multiple hosts it must instead be specified using the unique serial/hash, or
the \fB--force\fR flag must be set to allow items to (possibly) be clobbered.

.TP
\fBdeny\fR
Deny an outstanding certificate signing request and delete the file associated
with the request for the given host(s).
.TP
\fBgenerate\fR
Generate a new private key and signed certificate for the given host(s).
.TP
\fBinitialise\fR
Initialise a new certificate authority directory structure.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all outstanding certificate signing requests. If --all is specified, also
list all signed, revoked and expired certificates.
.TP
\fBsign\fR
Accept and sign the certificate signing requests for the given host(s).

.SH FILES AND DIRECTORIES
.\" TODO Give these relative to ${prefix} etc? or at least figure out CADIR
.\" TODO is combining the CA key and generated keys in one dir a good idea?
.TP
.I /CADIR/cacert.pem
CA certificate.
.TP
.I /CADIR/certs/
Certificate directory, containing signed certificates.
.TP
.I /CADIR/csr/
Certificate signing request directory, containing unsigned requests.
.TP
.I /CADIR/private/
Key directory, containing CA key and any generated keys.

.SH SECURITY
Proper key management is very important to keeping the system secure. Access
to private key material should be restricted, and care should be taken when
signing certificate requests to ensure that they have come from the host that
you expect. There are MANY security implications here that are glossed over
and should be expanded in documentation (and the implementation made more
secure).

.SH AUTHOR
ampca was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Brendon Jones <brendonj@waikato.ac.nz>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
